---
title: "Efficient Star-based Truss Maintenance on Dynamic Graphs"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-06-20-PPTruss
excerpt: 'This paper mainly studies the maintenance of k-truss using onion layers on dynamic graphs, which enables updates on large graphs to be completed in a short time.'
date: 2023-06-20
venue: 'Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data (<strong>SIGMOD ’23</strong>)'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1145/3589278'
citation: '<strong>Zitan Sun</strong>, Xin Huang, Qing Liu , Jianliang Xu, “Efficient Star-based Truss Maintenance on Dynamic Graphs”, Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data (SIGMOD ’23), Vol. 1, No. 2.'
---

K-truss is a useful notion of dense subgraphs, which can represent cohesive parts of a graph in a hierarchical way.
In practice, in order to enable various truss-based applications to answer queries faster, the edge trussnesses
are computed in advance. However, real-world graphs may not always be static and often have edges inserted
or removed, leading to costly truss maintenance of recomputing all edge trussnesses. In this paper, we focus
on dynamic graphs with star insertions/deletions, where a star insertion can represent a newly joined user
with friend connections in social networks or a recently published paper with cited references in citation
networks. To tackle such star-based truss maintenance, we propose a new structure of AffBall based on the
local structure of an inserted/deleted star motif. With AffBall, we make use of the correlation of inserted edges
to compute the trussnesses of the inner edges surrounding the star. Then, we analyze the onion layer of k-truss
and conduct truss maintenance for the edges beyond the star, which can be efficiently achieved with a time
complexity related to the number of the edges that change the onion layer. Moreover, we extend star-based truss
maintenance to handle general updates and single-edge insertions/deletions. Extensive experiments on realworld
dynamic graphs verify the effectiveness and efficiency of proposed algorithms against state-of-the-art
truss maintenance algorithms.
